[USING] Add chapter on Send (#475)
zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc: docs/using-wasabi/Send.md

5. Select a mining fee.
6. Enter the password.
7. Click `Send Transaction`.

![](/Send.png)

## Coins

A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.
In the Wasabi wallet `Send` tab, you see a list of all the coins you can spend because you have their private keys.
You can get a coin by first [receiving](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) them from someone else, for example by earning them or buying them for fiat currency.
You can spend one or more coins by selecting them in the `Send` tab, if your payment amount is below the value of the selected coins, then you will receive a [change coin](/using-wasabi/Change.md) back.

## Clusters

Every time you receive a payment, you first must [label the observers](/using-wasabi/Receive.md#the-importance-of-labeling) who know this address is yours.
This transaction metadata is used to build a cluster of which people know about your coins.
For example, if you receive a coin from Alice, then the cluster is `Alice`.
If you now send half of this coin to Bob, then the cluster of your change coin is `Alice, Bob`.

> The goal is to know the observers who know about your coins.

Reviewer: we can add `... and try to reduce their number for each coin`

Author: ```suggestion
The goal is to know the observers who know about your coins and try to reduce their number for each coin.
```

---
{
  "title": "Send",
  "description": "A step by step guide on how to send bitcoin in Wasabi. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Send

[[toc]]

## Coins

> A coin is an unspent transaction output, a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be sent in a future transaction.
```

> In the Wasabi wallet `Send` tab, you see a list of all the coins you can spend because you have the private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Wasabi wallet `Send` tab, you see a list of all the coins you can spend because you have their private keys.
```

---
{
  "title": "Send",
  "description": "A step by step guide on how to send bitcoin in Wasabi. This is the Wasabi documentation, an archive of knowledge about the open-source, non-custodial and privacy-focused Bitcoin wallet for desktop."
}
---

# Send

[[toc]]

## How to send bitcoin step by step

1. Select the coins you want to spend.
2. Specify a destination address.

> 3. Label the observers of this transaction.

Reviewer: I think this step should be after step 5 (select the mining fee) and it should be :
`If necessary label the observers of this transaction.`

Author: I always thought of the work flow as first giving the address, and then directly after saying who knows about the address. This just makes sense from a step by step point of view. Yes, if you end up sending the max amount, then the label is obsolete...

so idk...

Author: ```suggestion
3. If necessary label the observers of this transaction.
```

> 4. Specify the amount send to the destination address, press the `Max` button to send a whole coin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Specify the amount to send to the destination address, press the `Max` button to send the whole coins.
```

5. Select a mining fee.
6. Enter the password.
7. Click `Send Transaction`.

![](/Send.png)

## Coins

> A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be sent in a future transaction.
```

Author: Yes, you had this in the previous review too, and I didn't commit it, as I think that `sent` is the past tense, and here I'm talking about the future that you will be able to `send` the coin. 

Am I mistaken here?

Reviewer: I think you are mistaken, yes `sent` is the past tense but in this case it is `can be + verb`, so it should be `can be + past participle` I think. (I am not a native English speaker)
https://textranch.com/266887/it-can-be-sent-later/or/it-can-be-send-later/

@davterra had the same suggestion here https://github.com/zkSNACKs/WasabiDoc/pull/475/files#r365825337

Author: Yeah, haha, I don't even know what `past participle` is... :laughing:

Reviewer: You are not the only one :p

> A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Author: It's not just an `amount of` bitcoin, as this would mean it can be half the amount, or something.

What i want to say here that UTXOs are atomic units, they exist and cannot be divided, like a chunk of gold.

> A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Reviewer: Can't chunks of gold be divided?

> A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Author: Sure, but only when under heat and pressure. the analogy is not 100%, but I think it works...

> A coin is an unspent transaction output (UTXO), a chunk of bitcoin which can be send in a future transaction.

Reviewer 2: "Chunk" seems odd to me, as it usually refers to something that is physical, not virtual. 
That edit was an afterthought when I originally was only going to correct the "send/sent" typo in the sentence. 
Regardless, it's not worth spending more time on it now.

> In the Wasabi wallet `Send` tab, you see a list of all the coins you can spend because you have their private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Wasabi wallet `Send` tab, you see a list of all the coins you can spend because you have their private keys.
```

You can get a coin by first [receiving](/using-wasabi/Receive.md) them from someone else, for example by earning them or buying them for fiat currency.
You can spend one or more coins by selecting it in the `Send` tab, if your payment amount is below the value of the selected coins, then you will receive a [change coin](/using-wasabi/Change.md) back.

## Clusters

Every time you receive a payment, you first must [label the observers](/using-wasabi/Receive.md#the-importance-of-labeling) who know this address is yours.

> This transaction metadata is used to build a cluster of which parties know about your coins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This transaction metadata is used to build a cluster of which people/parties know about your coins.
```

Author: Peoples is better than parties, so let's stick with that

```suggestion
This transaction metadata is used to build a cluster of which people know about your coins.
```

> For example, if you receive a coin from Alice, then the cluster is `Alice`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you receive a coin from Alice, then the cluster is `Alice`.
```

If you now send half of this coin to Bob, then the cluster of your change coin is `Alice, Bob`.

> The goal is to reduce the number of observers who know about your coins.

Reviewer: I think the goal if the clusters is not to reduce the number of the observers but rather to know these observers.
```suggestion
The goal is to know the observers who know about your coins.
```

Author: This is actually a very good point!! 
Well, the initial goal is to know about the cluster, and then building ontop of it is to reduce the cluster size. For example, if Alice already knows about a coin, send her this, and not a coin she doesn't know...

## Anonymity Set

In a Wasabi [CoinJoin](/using-wasabi/CoinJoin.md), many peers register coins in the input of the transaction, and in the output there are several equal value coins, for example 100 coins worth exactly 0.1 bitcoin.
This means that when looking at one of these CoinJoin outputs, there is a 1 in 100 chance to find the corresponding input.
Thus the higher the anonymity set, the more your post-mix coin is delinked from the pre-mix history.
Wasabi shows you three levels of anonymity set, the yellow shield, the green shield and the check mark shield.
By default they have an anonymity set of `2`, `21` and `50`, however, this can be [changed in the settings](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.md#how-can-i-change-the-anonset-target).

![](/SendAnonset.png)

## Receiving Address

When sending bitcoin, you need to know the destination address of the receiver.
This commits to the spending condition that the receiver agrees to have for this coin.
The address can be a public key hash [starting with 1...], a script hash [starting with 3...], or a native segwit bech32 public key hash [starting with bc1q...].

> Make sure that you ask the receiver for a [new address](/using-wasabi/AddressReuse.md) for every payment to protect your privacy.

Reviewer: Using a new address is good for both the receiver and sender,
```suggestion
Make sure that you ask the receiver for a [new address](/using-wasabi/AddressReuse.md) for every payment to protect your privacy and theirs.
```

Wasabi will calculate the checksum and notify you if the provided address is wrong.

## Label

Similar to the `Receive` tab, you must label every new address with the observers who know that this is your address.
In the `Send` tab an address is automatically generated to receive the change amount, thus a label is not required when you send the max amount.

> The observer of a sending transaction is of course the receiver of it, as well as any other third party that will find out about it, for example a payment processor or exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The observer of a sending transaction is of course the receiver of it, as well as any other third party that will find out about it, for example a payment processor or an exchange.
```

> This metadata will be used to build an accurate cluster of observers who knows about your coins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This metadata will be used to build an accurate cluster of observers who know about your coins.
```

## Amount

In the amount text box you can specify how many bitcoins the receiving address will gain.
If it is blow the value of the selected inputs, then the leftover will be send to an automatically generated change address of yours.
You can send a whole coin by selecting the `Max` button, which will build a transaction with only one output, the receiving address, and no change.
You can also see the current US Dollar value of the sending amount.

If you specify a rounded amount, like `0.01000000 bitcoin`, then the change output will not be rounded, like `0.08968413 bitcoin`.

> This makes it easy to find out that the spending amount was the `0.01 bitcoin`, and that the other output is the change back to the sender.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This makes it easy for an observer to conclude that the spending amount was the `0.01 bitcoin`, and that the other output is the change back to the sender.
```

So in order to increase your privacy, you can set a non-rounded amount, like `0.01016843`.

## Mining Fee

Every transaction must specify a fee which incentives the miner to include it in a block, it is calculated by `value of inputs - value of outputs`.

> The higher the fee per virtual byte transaction size, the more likely miners are to confirm this transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The higher the fee per virtual byte (vbyte) transaction size, the more likely miners are to confirm this transaction.
```

> Wasabi uses Bitcoin Core's `smart fee` algorithm to estimate the hours it will take to confirm at the given fee level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wasabi uses Bitcoin Core's `smart fee` algorithm to estimate the time it will take to confirm at the given fee level.
```

> You can change the fee by moving the slider, or even specify it manually by activating this functionality in the settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the fee by moving the slider, or even specify it manually by activating this functionality in the [settings](/FAQ/FAQ-UseWasabi.html#how-do-i-set-custom-fee-rate).
```

By clicking on the fee in the brackets below the slider, you can cycle through `total bitcoin amount`, `sats per vbyte`, `percentage fee of sending amount` or `US Dollar equivalent`.

![](/SendFeeSlider.png)

In some cases, there is very little demand for block space, and then Wasabi will set the minimum fee of `1 sat/vbyte`.

![](/SendNoFee.png)

## Password

In order to spend a coin, the transaction must be signed by the private key corresponding to that coin.

> Wasabi stores your master private key on the computer, encrypted with the password that you specified during [wallet generation](/using-wasabi/WalletGeneration.md#what-password-to-choose).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wasabi stores your master private key on the computer, encrypted with the password that you specified during the [wallet generation](/using-wasabi/WalletGeneration.md#what-password-to-choose).
```

> To spend a coin you need to type in or copy and paste the password, which decrypts the master private key, which is used to sign the transaction.

Reviewer: The master private key doesn't sign the transaction.
I think after the master private key is decrypted, the specific private key is derived and is used to sign the transaction.
@lontivero

Author: ```suggestion
To spend a coin you need to type in or copy and paste the password, which decrypts the master private key, which is used to derive the child private key that signs the transaction.
```

Author: It might be a damn long sentence now though...

Afterwards the password is wiped from memory.

## Broadcast

> Once the transaction is singed, Wasabi will connect to a random Bitcoin P2P node over Tor and provide this transaction, then it will immediately disconnect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the transaction is signed, Wasabi will connect to a random Bitcoin P2P node over Tor and provide this transaction, then it will immediately disconnect.
```

> This first node will gossip the transaction throughout the network, also to miners who include it in a block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This first node will gossip the transaction throughout the network, then miners can include it in a block.
```
